there was a time in the distant past
when I really worked in political
science political social science
research and I found myself highly
motivated all the time to speak out
write articles and do what I could to
declare hey what's going on in political
research is a scam there was a time when
I was involved with Buddhist research
the history of Buddhism philology
translation of ancient texts that sort
of thing and I found myself tempted very
frequently to speak out write articles
and you know frankly it started all
kinds of conflicts in controversy
pointing the finger and saying hey guys
wake up something going on here and eat
is a scam until quite recently I was
involved in vegan activism activism for
veganism is political cause and I was
frequently tempted frequently drawn out
of my slumber to write articles and make
youtube videos and really scream as loud
as I could to draw attention sit look
guys there's something going on here
that is this game beneath the veneer of
respectable mainstream press reporting
but she's the reassuring kind of
headlines that the people who write
articles of the newspaper
know what they're talking about and that
you as a reader can become well informed
by reading these articles we have we
have a very dangerous game of
self-deception and misinformation going
on an example that matters today and
maybe forgotten a few months from now
but an example that matters today and
that reveals the depth of this problem
which is going to be a profound problem
in the next 10 years Joe Biden allegedly
is supported by 48 percent of
african-american voters we normally say
in plain English mmm forty eight percent
of black voters in the Democrat Party
allegedly
support Joe Biden now there was a time
there was a time when the footnote or
the warning I would insert here is know
what that means is 48 percent of black
people who are willing to answer a phone
call from a stranger and then answer a
survey but via the phone that takes I
don't know 10 12 minutes 48 percent of
those black people vote for Joe Biden
right and that that is itself a powerful
source of skew a powerful source of bias
a powerful source of misrepresentation
but what we're dealing with today is so
far removed from that it's so bizarre
it's so surreal the fraud that is being
passed off that's legitimate polling
data that if I travel back in time to
let's just say 1985 if I travel back in
time to 1985 my only youth I was alive
then and I walked up to a professor of
political science and I described the
methodology being used now by Ipsos
knowledge panel he would say to me
that's not polling what are you talking
about that's not a poll of the general
public of at all probably a mainstream
professor of political science as
recently as 1985 if you described him
the methodology that's now being taken
for granted and treated as legitimate by
the Washington Post New York Times by
mainstream Americans if you if you
describe this to a professor at 9:35
he'd say what do you mean that sounds
like something the Soviet Union would do
that sounds like something some kind of
communist government would do is like a
conspiracy to misrepresent public
opinion to create an illusion of what
public opinion is what is its source it
sews knowledge panel if so's knowledge
panel is a a club of about 55,000
members as membership they're not
polling the general public they have
55,000 members on the website of Epps's
calm itself they do not directly say
these people are paid it doesn't say
they're paid and say they're unpaid I I
have heard sources in political science
stating it as a fact that they're paid
googling on the internet now because you
know there are 55,000 people who
participate some of them must chitchat
about this right I've found people
saying that you're paid with some kind
of voucher or coupon or discount so it's
something like you get a gift card where
you can buy something they were
suggesting that it's not really payment
in cash but that there is payment of
some kind so there were 55,000 people
selected recruited and remunerated
55,000 people employed to be the
knowledge panel again if soviet russia
did this we wouldn't regard it as
legitimate it right now today if
communist china did this we'd all laugh
it out of the newspapers right if
venezuela did this if iran did this all
right if the muslim theocratic mixed
democracy system in iran iran does have
elections never forget that very
religious country but they do have
democracy they do they have elections
and they have newspapers to get the
debate who's the better candidate that
kind of thing um if iran did this if
iran said well we're not going to
publish polling data we're not gonna
pull people about who's popular we're
gonna employ a few thousand people on a
knowledge panel and their their job is
to is to fill out these questionnaires
for us over the internet through
internet questionnaire all right it
would be laughed out of the room and
people would say very simply this is not
a poll this is not what polling meant in
1985 it's not what polling met in 1995
either right
the most fundamental technical
technological change here was actually
not the internet it was cellular phones
and people not wanting to answer or
comply or participate on cellular phones
and even worse it's not uniform so a lot
of the polling data done by telephone
under-represented the type of person who
would vote for donald trump so this is
now an established fact
enough money was paid to research it
it's common sense but it has also been
proven in as much as the social sciences
could prove anything it's not just that
left-wing people and moderates and
right-wing people all equally refuse to
comply with telephone polling you can
imagine there are certain types of
left-wing social justice warrior type
people who are happy to get that call
say hey we want to do a poll with you
and we want to talk to you for 12
minutes and ask you some questions and
your answers could help make the world a
better place
there are certain types of optimistic
happy people who will then participate
that fall and disproportionately the
type of people who vote for Donald Trump
hang up the phone you can say they're
impatient you can say they're
anti-establishment you can see whatever
that is this was one of the reasons not
the only one why polls failed to report
accurately how many people in the Rust
Belt bridge in the United States were
actually going to vote for Donald Trump
in general polling is dead polling as we
knew it
polling as we came to rely on it is dead
and I can accept that
political science can move forward
journalism can move forward but I'm not
gonna lie to here I think there should
be a law a federal law passed in the
United States that you cannot refer to a
a knowledge panel survey as a poll all
right now there are other kinds of
social science research that I think
could rise up to challenge and replace
what we thought of as polling in the
past and the current scam fraudulent
pseudo polls that are being published
claiming the 48% of black people support
Joe Biden and look I don't even know but
a few days later there was another
another poll published which again is
probably no more reliable that instead
found 27% of African Americans support
you abide okay why do you think that is
why do you say there were two poles with
two radically different numbers and
we're not even talking about a very
large there aren't that many African
Americans the United States who vote for
Joe Biden we're not talking
a phenomenon of the scale of billions of
people this is not like trying to
ascertain how many people in China are
satisfied with their dentists or
something okay this is a pretty
specialized area of talking um not and
not all african-americans even care
about the the Democrat primary so you're
polling a minority within a minority
with a minority we should have
consistency if there's any legitimacy to
the polls at all if these are indeed
polls at all okay look there are
alternatives but we can't misrepresent
these alternate methods as polling data
we can't eat I don't even think you
should use the term survey you had a
selected public they have 55,000 people
on the so-called knowledge panel and
they're being paid to do this as far as
I know they're being given vouchers and
coupons they're giving some kind of
payment to reward them for their time
and put into this this is not polling
okay and who are they who chose will
they reassure you oh we used rigorous
methodology and you know we select them
so they can be representative guess what
you probably chose the type of elderly
especially interested in politics
african-americans who support you Biden
this very poll shows the problem sir
this pseudo poll the results comparing
this forty eight percent this shows
exactly the kind of skew exactly the
kind of bias exactly the kind of
misrepresentation that's built into that
not despite your rigorous methods but
because of your rigorous methods what
about the people who don't care about
politics what about the people who vote
but who do not want to sign up for your
stupid knowledge panel who don't want to
become a member who don't want to
receive the junk email who don't want a
50 cent voucher or whatever the never
the payment is people who don't want to
play that game what about the people who
hang up the phone what about the people
who don't go in for this it's
like that's the ultimate source of bias
here is it's like the people who like
participating in political bias
I guess it's the same thing if you have
one of those one of those one of those
websites on the internet we
people like click a button to show that
they want social change you know and
those people are so naive they're like
oh we got 30 million clicks when we ask
this question so you know therefore
such-and-such percentage of the American
people want this wonderful socially no
no I mean you know you're measuring look
this is not even getting into the
question of intentional fraud if you are
paying people to be on this stupid panel
I don't know if they get paid $5.00 I
don't know if they get paid $50 what I
found the internet suggested the payment
is very modest let me tell you something
$5 is not much money if you live in Los
Angeles if you're a retired
african-american left-wing person living
in Los Angeles $5 is not a lot of money
five US dollars is a lot of money in
Cambodia you could have people who sit
down as a full-time enterprise in
Cambodia sign up for multiple accounts
with knowledge panel and they can do it
all man because if they have multiple
accounts they're getting five dollars
from each account they might have 20
accounts Cambodia that's real money they
can get themselves a VPN they can get
some phony paperwork they can download
some stuff from the internet say oh yeah
this is my address they have one address
for one email in California one that's
in Maine and one that's in Michigan they
can get set up and if you think that
only scammers in Cambodia might be
highly motivated to do this there might
be some highly professional people in
the service of foreign governments who
want to do it one of the very few
articles I read about this was written
by a political science professor I'm
sorry Fred he was either politics or
history but a professor who said that he
had a friend who was intentionally
perverting the system a friend who was
out of his own academic interest this
was another university professor who had
signed up so he could kind of spy on
this system and CEO was working and he
was intentionally putting in like really
wacky and extreme results to see if if
the system would check him or what would
happen like what happens if you give
really contradictory crazy answers like
you know are they gonna detect that
there's something wrong or you know
what's gonna happen so I can imagine
that some some bored academic at a
university with a PhD signing up and
joining one of these one of these survey
groups
because they want to know where do the
poles come from this is like going
inside the sausage factory and seeing
how sausage is made okay obviously this
set of cultural assumptions developed in
response to the demise of telephone
based polling the increasing public
reluctance to answer such a call what
have you and it evolved in reaction to
the opportunities presented by the
Internet where it now seems so easy to
send out a spam email to 500 people and
say hey would you like to make five
dollars you got I know if it's five
dollars or fifty dollars answering some
questions on on polls and a certain type
of person will say yes but it's not the
average person it's not a representative
person and the more of an effort this
company makes to make it representative
through rigorous methodology the more
unnatural that the more phony the more
fraudulent the whole procedure is
because yes sure they have a
preconceived notion of what percentage
of black people support you abide and so
if you just use the the data raw without
waiting what do we mean by waiting the
data in political science right that
means they look at and go like oh well
these numbers don't look right you know
I think we should give more weight to
the people in Indiana and less weight to
the people in California for this reason
they're you're thinking it through I
mean the more of this you do the more
nuanced you add the more interpretation
the more rating the less legitimacy it
as a poet was like the more
methodological rigor they apply to this
in trying to make it representative the
phony Rand phony or gets and this claim
this claim that 48% of African Americans
vote for Joe Biden it was based on a
survey of only 769 American blacks and
they're not chosen at random they're not
walking out of a subway station like the
injury interviewed as they walk out of a
subway station they're not chosen by
walking down the street and picking
every seventh house as you walk down the
street and those are old-fashioned
survey methods where you walked on foot
door-to-door and every seventh number
whatever whatever the methodology was
okay no these are
769 people who are selected recruited
and paid to participate in this poll
okay polling is dead the good news is
there's a new role like never before for
documentary filmmaking to step in what
we can do now more than ever before is
get qualitative data where you go in and
make a deal with a shoe factory owner
say ok we're gonna pay you a little bit
of money to interrupt your work at this
shoe factory a little bit for one day
you don't have to stop the whole factory
we're gonna come in in one day we're
gonna interview people in groups of 30
so 30 people come in and do an interview
30 people come in we're gonna work
through all the staff we're gonna film
it it's going to be good advertising for
your shoe factory we're gonna put the
film on the internet it's gonna be here
on YouTube say hey guess what we decided
to talk to all the employees of the shoe
factory in depth about who they're
voting for and why you what you're going
to get you're going to get really
interesting nuanced qualitative data and
you're gonna get an open question we can
all participate in of to what extent are
the people who work in that shoe factory
representative or not representative of
Americans as a whole because in the 21st
century when polling is dead you just
can't know